So we're gonna introduce Flexbox with this
little PowerPoint show here I want to
give you a little bit of background about
responsive design and what it is and
then we're going to talk a little bit more
about Flexbox including its history and
its syntax and
things to think about when you work with
Flexbox then we'll get into some coding.
So to start here,
responsive design was defined by Ethan
Marcotte back in May of 2010 now, so 11
years it's been since Ethan Marcotte came
up with the idea of responsive design.
And he defined it as images that resize
and media queries and a grid based layout.
Now, when he came up with this concept,
the only way to do layouts on a web
page were pretty much two ways.
One was a table based layout,
which everybody knew was bad news and
float based layouts which were a lot
more difficult to work with at
that point in time and so
fortunately Flexbox has since gone through
several iterations and
become well supported by browsers, so
the grid based layout is much
easier than it used to be.
The images that resize have come a long
way we're gonna talk a lot about those and
of course we're gonna work with media
queries all through this course.
So a grid based layout you might be
familiar with from Responsive Design
frameworks like Bootstrap or Foundation UI
kit there's many many of these
frameworks the concept being that you have
some number of columns on the page and
then you're going to group together
those columns into a unit and
that will become a where you actually
display something on your webpage.
The concept here comes from print design,
where printers have thought about
columns in terms of laying things out for
a very long period of time.
It helps keep layouts neat and clean and,
and flexible in a lot of ways.
These days we tend to be breaking away
from this format a little bit, but
we will look at it a little bit
both in terms of Flexbox and
in terms of CSS grid over this course,
so that you can understand this model.
We'll also look at some ways people are
looking at these types of layouts using
different types of technologies.
The images that resize have
come along way as well.
So last time I recorded
this course in 2017.
We talked about the picture element.
And that was all it turns out that
there are two other ways that are now
in HTML 5 sizes and source set.
Those happen to come out the same month
and get supported by edge at the same
month that I was recording this
course the last time around,
which is why I didn't talk about that.
So pictures, sizes and
source set are all very well supported.
Now, we will be talking about those later
on today in terms of responsive images and
how that can work.
And then of course,
finally, CSS media queries.
So this comes straight from the CSS,
there's not any JavaScript involved.
And for the most part, people have used
media queries in terms of screen widths,
minimum width,
maximum widths and so forth.
But media queries are much more than that.
Especially today we have a lot more types
of media queries that are supported.
You can do portrait or landscape.
You can do aspect ratios.
And you could do a print media
query because after all,
media query is actually
all about the media.
So you can ask if you're just trying to
print out something as opposed to putting
it on the screen.
So keep that in mind as you
work with media queries.
They don't all have to be screen widths.
So how does Ethan Marcotte
ideas hold up today?
Well, those grid base lands tend to
be associated a lot with frameworks,
people tend to think of them as very
heavy and difficult to work with and
I'm here to tell you it doesn't have
to be, not if you know what you're
doing that in the images that
resize are often forgotten.
A lot of people just put up the same
picture across all of their devices.
Or they go after complicated solutions
may be something that's JavaScript base
I'm here to tell you that's all baked
into HTML and it's well supported nothing
could actually be easier than responsive
images a lot of developers today
are trying to avoid media queries and
there may be some reasons for that.
I'm not sure if it's complicated CSS or
if it's performance that people
are concerned about, but media queries
are not that difficult to understand.
I hope that after two days of working on
this stuff you have a better idea of how
media queries work in CSS, and
how to read the code correctly,
to understand where your
styles are coming from.
I suspect that's part of the reason
people don't like media queries.
And then of course everybody
comes along and says, well,
container queries are gonna
solve all my problems.
Sub grid is gonna solve
all of my problems.
This is something that I've heard now for
twenty years.
There`s always some latest hottest new
technology that's just out of reach that
is going to solve all of our problems and
I'm here to tell you that's not true, they
have very good technology right now that
you can work with even before you get.
Your queries and subgrid which are coming
I haven't covered them in this
course because they're still under
development at this point in time but
they will be here hopefully sometime soon
>> How do you decide on the media
queries for your project?
>> How do I decide on the media
queries for my projects?
What looks good.
So in other words you don't tie your media
queries to devices because devices change
every single day of the week.
So it's not going to be like the old days
where you can say definitively where
exactly certain media
queries should be set.
Furthermore, you can have media
queries for one part of the page,
because that part of the page needs
a certain set of media queries.
Then another part of the page maybe have a
different set of media queries associated
with it to make it look
good across breakpoints.
So this is part of what I'm talking
about in terms of fragmenting
the approach to responsive design now.
So that you can focus on smaller
parts of your page instead of
media queries to control that part
of the page to make each each
element on the page look
optimal in its layout.
So as you move forward working on
responsive design, keep in mind these
guiding principles of the grid based
layout, the images that resize and
their media queries as something that are
going to define what responsive design is.
Define what responsive layouts are?
But you don't have to strictly adhere to
them the way Ethan Marcotte described them
11 years ago, at this point in time.